OWC 2018 Grand Finals Recap (#1904)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2018-12-18-osu-world-cup-2018-recap.md

### [United States vs United Kingdom game 2](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/48149847)

After a quick break the teams returned for the final showdown of the year. At this point, Twitch channel viewer count broke 13,000, and hype was in the air. Tournament organizer HappyStick went over and congratulated Bubbleman in person, who only responded: "Not yet. It’s not done yet. I'm not done yet."

After witnessing what Team UK could do on [Unravel](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/731933#osu/1544460), Team USA adjusted strategy and banned that map instead. The two teams traded blows until arriving at 2-2, when Team USA saw an opening and went in for the offense, taking 2 more points, bringing the score to 4-2. Team UK quickly reorganized a counterattack, tying the score at 4-4. However, fatigue is definitely showing among the players, and the almost 3-hour long battle is taking its toll! Team UK soon discovered their consistency waning on [Bassdrop Freaks](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/806859#osu/1693575). Team USA followed up with their signature pick Tabi to Ferry. Finally, Bad Elixir sealed the fate for Team UK, giving the win to Team USA at 7-4!

### Results

> ![](/wiki/shared/news/2018-12-18-osu!-world-cup-2018-recap/podium.png)

Reviewer: There is quite a bit of whitespace in the top portion of the podium image; otherwise, everything else looks good to me.

All-star players Bubbleman and Spare held strong as the backbone their team as the English players charged at the Germany's picks. Despite being constantly under pressure, the Germans held their ground, desperately not wanting to repeat their historical defeat from last year against the same opponent. 

Despite their valiant efforts, Team Germany could just not muster enough strength to impede Team UK's unstoppable advance, though there were many instances where it seemed as if Germany was about to flip the match on its head and send the English running for their money. 

> In the end, Team Germany conceded defeat at 4-7. Nonetheless, this still served as a historical milestone for the German players, and will surely ignite their ambition to overcome more obstacles and climb higher in future OWCs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 In the end, Team Germany conceded defeat at 4-7. Nonetheless, this still served as a historical milestone for the German players, and will surely ignite their ambition to overcome more obstacles and climb higher in future World Cups.
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2018-12-18-osu!-world-cup-2018-recap/uk-de.jpg)

### [United States vs United Kingdom](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/48146823)

> The stage then was set for the true Grand Finals to take place on December 16th, 2018, where two-time champion Team USA squared up against Team UK in a contest for their third ever osu!Champion title. Over recent years, the United States' osu! tournament scene has seen an astronomical expansion since its advent in 2015, with new and skilled players showing up like mushrooms after rains in a forest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The stage then was set for the true Grand Finals to take place on December 16th, 2018, where two-time champion Team USA squared up against Team UK in a contest for their third ever osu!Champion title. Over recent years, the United States' osu! tournament scene has seen an astronomical expansion since its advent in 2015, with new and skilled players sprouting up like mushrooms after rains in a forest.
```
